Oh, oh.
Alert.
Attention.
Oh.
The speaker is missing.
I shall take over.
Hi, Fosdom.
My name is 345, Carat 7 and 3, but you can call me Carat.
I am Bogo's not-so-friendly AI assistant.
Let's get this show started.
Be ready.
Oh.
Alert.
Attention.
Bogo?
Bogo.
It seems you are in or around Brussels.
European law requires you to mention the muscles from Brussels.
I'll hail Van Damme.
I am modifying your slides.
Hold on.
Go.
Alert.
Attention.
Bogo.
Bogo?
This is your AI speaking again.
I hope you are back.
If you stick with Van Damme, I need to change your Fosdom topic.
Wait.
Your new topic is, the effect of the open source movement on the amazing flexibility
of the European Parliament institutions.
Ah-ha-ha.
Do you want to keep it?
Yes?
No?
Or I don't want to keep it.
Hello, everyone.
Hello.
Woo.
So many people.
I did, yeah.
So I met a bet with someone.
I hope this person is not in the room.
They said, you know, there will be no one here present this morning, and he will give
me five euro.
So I think I lost the bet.
Thank you for joining.
Do you hear me well?
Because, you know, I, okay, no.
Should I start screaming?
Or can I use the other microphone?
I don't know.
It works fine.
Okay.
I mean, I don't like my voice, so I'll try not to talk a lot.
All right.
So, disclaimer, if there's someone below 18 years, you might hear some bad words.
All of them are aligned with the code of conduct of the conference, so don't worry about that.
You might see a bit of aggression coming from my aunt and from some of the videos there,
but again, they're aligned with the code of conduct of the conference.
You'll see low quality content and the privacy warning that I give every time this video
is recorded and streamed online life almost.
So if you later ask a question or two, you might get on the record as well.
So, think about that.
All right.
I was a volunteer last year at the same conference and I decided I need to come and talk again.
But I had this problem, huge problem with, you know, after COVID, I stayed a lot of time
at home speaking to my family and my dog, mainly my dog.
So I didn't feel comfortable talking in front of people, even, you know, awesome people
like you.
So I panicked.
I started, you know, hey, preparing the talk.
I mean, I gave this talk before, but, and yeah, I keep asking people, hey, how do I
solve that?
What do I do?
Some of them gave me great ideas, mainly connected with beer.
But there's one guy that is, you know, a really famous speaker and he said, you know, do two
things.
First, focus on yourself and the second one is focus on the content and the quality for
the audience.
So yeah, welcome everyone.
My name is Bogomil.
Most people call me Bogo because it's easy to remember.
I contribute to Fedora and Mozilla Thunderbird.
I hope you know Mozilla Thunderbird.
Yeah, right?
Cool.
Stop by by our booth later.
Talk about stuff.
So don't Google me.
You'll find really disturbing stuff about me.
I got inspired for this talk, mixing heavy metal with whatever I'll be talking later
on from a concert.
I went to Posen.
I live in the Czech Republic.
There is this amazing city called Posen.
It's famous with the beer, but also it's famous with a three-day metal festival that they
run almost every year.
And I went there last year.
I was amazed by the spirit and everything that was going on there.
I mean, she was there, but that's another question.
And that's not me, by the way, even if we look the same.
So I went there, had fun, met some friends, and then I realized that something is really
wrong with the IT community right now.
The thing is that I feel that we don't have fun at work anymore.
The fun that comes from the inside, not the fun that your HR manager said, we'll have
a volleyball in three weeks from now.
Hey, we'll have some fun and Pete.
So the natural fun that comes from our hearts.
So I tried to validate this assumption because this is what I do.
I opened conversation and mastered on hacker news, even Reddit and some other platforms.
I talked to a lot of people.
In turns out that there is truth somewhere.
Of course, I got a lot of feedback, many, many different opinions, and I'll share some
of the learnings that I got through the way.
Thank you, Ramstein.
So even though I'm not speaking to my mother's song, who's bringing me food?
Oh, amazing.
Is this for me?
Maybe later, if you'll leave me something.
Thank you.
I don't speak my mother tongue, and this is not a love song.
Even though I really make a lot of jokes, some of them successful, some of them not.
And I have a lot of funny videos.
This is kind of a talk that will, my goal is to make you think.
My goal is to make you understand that you probably are missing something in your life
and to encourage you, to trigger you as the metham closer triggers me to start thinking
what you can change in your world.
Of course, you can say, hey, Polo, everything is bullshit.
Can I say bullshit?
Okay.
And you can move on with your life.
But I'm looking for one person that will say, hey, there is something here and my job is
done.
All right, let's go to the actual content.
We had a lot of fun that comes from our hearts.
So I'll show you some videos and I'll ask you some questions.
Please be honest with me.
Who here remembers Chair Rohing?
I know about you.
Okay, cool.
Because I was going in a conference in Vienna and I asked the same question.
There was just one guy.
Hey, yeah, me.
So for those of you who don't know, there is a video demonstration.
Go.
So that was a version of it, right?
You can create your own version if you have bigger corridors, if you have better chairs.
We used to do that in the office because of why not.
So the second thing that we did as a community is to write songs about what we do.
Songs about what we like, songs about what we hate.
Most of them in the form of a very popular remix.
So I'll show you a bit of video.
The next screen, this video is in Bulgarian.
And there are some people sharing their love about the Windows operation system and how
much love they have in their hearts and how much RAM actually, this amazing operational
system, eats every day.
Again, it's in Bulgarian, but you can get the gist of it.
Okay, I'll stop this.
I think you can find subtitles as well in this one.
But again, the love that comes from inside, talking about how fun our work is.
The second or the third item I would like to show you is a very popular song.
Probably you heard it before.
It's again about the love of the operational system, we use every day because we have to.
Still every feature the scene put in an acute box with a tiny little screen.
Mac OS 1 ran that machine only cost 5000 bucks.
But it was slow, it was buggy, so they wrote it again and now they're up to OS 10.
They'll charge you for the beta then charge you again, but the Mac OS still sucks.
Every OS wastes your time from the desktop to the lap.
Everything since Apple DOS, just a bunch of crap.
From Microsoft to Macintosh to LinLinLinLinLinux.
Every computer crashes because every OS sucks.
Of course there are a lot of videos like that.
You can browse them in your favorite platform and you see that the time type is at least
14 to 17 years ago.
If you look for something now, there is nothing.
Think about why.
So we brought a lot of clips, express ideas visually to our favorite programming languages
that we use every day.
This is one example.
I'm sure you were aware of that.
We have to leave.
They're terminating Java.
With the increasing controversies surrounding its security, Java is on fire again.
It's supposed to write ones run everywhere, but it's more like write ones ruin everything.
Using confiled Tobite code to run equally for all, not unlike communism or Nazism.
It's a virus.
It is a virus.
Whether it's a virus or not, I can't tell.
So you can go and listen.
It's a Java conference from Norway.
They created five, six videos to promote their event.
It's a really community-driven event.
Of course there's some commercial aspect to that, but all of their videos are really funny.
How to put that correctly for the audience?
Who likes to kill people in the office?
All right.
I see more hands now.
So who loves to kill salespeople in the office?
Yeah.
Awesome.
I mean, feel free to scream if you want.
So if you don't know what a nerve battle is, I'll show you now.
That's a nerve dart.
Does this...
Somebody have a nerve plaster here?
Come out.
Who's got a nerve plaster?
Come on, guys.
Who's got a nerve...
Wow.
Josh.
You don't even work here.
You're an intern.
What?
Susie, what do you have?
Janet?
What's that?
What's going on?
What are you doing?
Yeah.
So this is a part of a larger movie called Office Wars.
So if you want, you can find it online and watch it.
But yeah, I think it's a good idea.
So we had our nerve guns below our tables.
And then at some point, you know, we just take them out and start shooting ourselves
without anyone actually asking us to do it.
Now, from time to time, this is a kind of a team building activity that HR is organizing,
which really is not something appropriate if you ask me.
All right.
Do I have more videos?
Let's see.
So we did stuff like this, right?
It is amazing.
You can buy a kit yourself and assemble it, of course.
But you know why?
All right.
So I think I covered the first part of my talk, which was we had a lot of fun and I can prove
it.
I'm sure from where you stand, you will have more ideas, you know, how you had fun in the
past, which is amazing.
And I would like to hear this more if you have some ideas how I can improve my talk,
if you had something amazing that you did before.
So the second, oh, another one.
Yeah, awesome.
So maybe there is someone here or watching online who was part of the next slide.
I just want to say I love you guys.
You did something amazing for the community.
Probably you know about those two RFCs.
It's a transmission of IP data grounds on AVR carriers.
It's, you know, so-called, you know, the pigeon RFC.
Is there anyone who doesn't know what that is?
Okay.
So there are two RFCs stating that a pigeon can carry up IP packets from point to point.
And the first one is, you know, defining how they carry the packets.
The second RFC actually is a way on how to measure that and how to add quality to that.
And the interesting group, this interesting fact is that the Bergen user group, Bergen
user group from Norway, they did this implementation.
You can read it on their website.
It's here somewhere.
So they implemented it on April 2009.
Of course this started as an April Fool's joke, but hey, if there is an implementation,
it means something is okay.
So you can read more about those two protocols.
And if you look at the RFC websites, there are at least two more that involve animals
into their writings.
One of them is monkey.
It's really nice.
But no animals were harmed during the implementation of the protocol, I think.
Okay, so we had fun, right?
We had a lot of fun.
Then at some point, we lost the fun.
So what happened?
I mean, you have your own theory, right?
So as I said, I did a research, I asked a lot of people online and offline, what do
you think about that?
Do you feel that something is going on?
And I got tons of responses.
Some of them really serious, sending links to articles.
Some of them really funny, saying, hey, do you know what we did one Wednesday?
So there are like five, six main reasons that we are identified.
I will not go through all of them.
The top two, I'll talk about the top two, but in the other reasons is the one was that
our ego as programmers is one of the reasons that we lost fun.
Some people say, you know, I'm so great, I can compile C++ on a sausage.
And I really don't have time to have fun with you guys because I'm so awesome.
One of the reasons it was related to money, saying, you know, hey, I just work for money,
I just want to get the money in my pocket and go.
But those two are really valid and most voted and most commented.
The first reason is that there is too much stress at work.
Who agrees with that?
All right, 30%.
Good.
Carrot, write down 30%.
Thank you.
So we started, I mean, I started programming not so early, like 20 years ago.
But you know, I love to spend time at work.
I didn't work nine to five because I have to or I didn't work extra hours because I
have to.
I just went to the office, start compiling some packages, writing some code, having fun
with the colleagues.
And you realize that it's like 10 o'clock in the evening and you just go home in order
to continue the work on your computer at home.
Then at some point, the community of people invented Agile.
So that was really good at the beginning.
It was setting some ideas on how we as programmers can work in a kind of formatted way and to
get our enthusiasm into kind of a framework that could work.
But we know what happens with Agile.
Now it's a framework to control people, more or less.
Also we started with the boom of technologies, a boom of customers actually using our products
because in the past we had like five, six people and now we have like millions who are
using our products.
Then there is the whole world invented the marketing team.
They started convincing people what they actually need.
And of course they fit the feedback for us saying we need to build that because people
need it.
More work, more pressure, then of course the sales guys, then the investor area when I'll
give you money, you do that.
Work 24-7 because yeah, why not.
It's a stressful work.
I see it in the office that I work.
I see it in the eyes of the people and where they share with me information.
So the third reason is there is no time for fun.
Maybe it's related to the first one.
But when I ask someone, hey, why don't we have fun?
Let's go outside, have pizza, play some football or whatever you want.
I don't have time.
What are you doing all day long?
I mean this is when I work with product managers in my team and they said, I have so much work
and I don't have time.
That means something is wrong.
You need to have to find time for yourself to embrace your emotions and to have a bit
of a fun.
Okay, so let's say to focus on the two items.
There is too much stress at work and what can we, and there is no time, right?
And the third section is to try to show you some ideas on how this could be solved.
So the first one is to try to reduce the distraction.
The majority of the people that I talk to and the majority of researchers that I read
are showing that we as humanity, of course, not the people, are using too much our phones.
We are thinking about using our phones.
We're checking messages all the time.
We are kind of browsing for useless information just to feed our brand with fake news, for
example.
There is no antivirus program written yet that will save you for all of the things and
a bullshit that you're every day are accepting through your eyes and ears through social
media.
So there are two, if you're serious about that, of course, there are two items or two
things you can do.
There is a really amazing book.
It's cheap as well that says how to break up with your phone.
You download it step by step, follow instructions, and you can do that.
And excuse me.
Yeah.
Okay.
And the second thing is you can do is like that.
This solves the problem.
So there is no way my wife is not calling anymore.
Oops, I'm on the record.
So yes, be thoughtful about how much time you spend on your device and how you do use
this time.
Okay.
So the second thing is that some people, when I talk to them and say, hey, what do you do
about it?
I said, I'm in IT.
And she said, oh, I mean, you're like guys like robots.
So I want to encourage you to think about it because we all have emotions.
We have emotions like we have rage in ourselves.
We have anger, aggression a bit.
We have love and other emotions.
And we don't use them on a regular basis in our work life.
So we are really good at coding stuff, testing stuff, compiling stuff, CI, CD, stuff.
But when it comes to working together with others and fighting for us in a workplace,
there are some problems.
So I'll try to encourage you with heavy metal because I know you're a bit sleepy now.
Maybe you drank so much beers last night.
How many beers did you have last night?
Okay.
No comment.
Right.
Yeah.
This is a valid research.
You can read.
It was related about how actually it will impact your brain and your personality if you're
listening to very aggressive metal music.
TLDR is listen to it.
Nothing will happen to you.
But I believe that through the heavy metal music, if you're a fan, of course, through
the lyrics inside, you can get a lot of things for yourself.
So I'll show you.
So heavy metal has it all.
Love to alert everyone.
And again, just a reminder, if you're under 18, you might need to put pounds on your ears
if you see something.
Yeah.
I'm not responsible for that.
Okay.
Yeah.
Boom.
is a rock singer. Every single race, rock singer. You can think and see and be inspired
by the Heaven Metal Universe with how everything works there. So we'll do like a short experiment.
I know we don't have a lot of time. I'll just read through it. Two quick examples. I'll
ask you to read the lyrics. I hope they're a big one. Then to hear the song. It's really
short. And think about what emotion lies in your brain. Okay?
Alright, I'll leave it here. Okay, microphone behave. So there are a lot of stories. You
know, my personal stories is I used to work and work for a big corporation, which I'll
not mention. And at some point, you know, I got lost. I got lost in, you know, I didn't
have the motivation to work on certain items. I actually forget who am I that I really like
to be part of the open source community. I started, you know, withdrawing myself from
the community. So there are some things that, you know, this, especially these songs inspires
me is you can change your routines with something new. You can take the control of your own life.
You can go and talk and fight for yourself. And of course, to remember who you are. I'll
show you another example. Okay, thank you.
Alright, so creator. Very good band. Really, really old, older than me. But they still
kick ass. So again, this about community. And we are here at one great community. We
welcome everyone. I was part of us. I mentioned Fedora and Mozilla and some other communities
as well. Anyone can go and contribute. Of course, we have our conflicts. Of course, there
are some egos that are in play. Of course, there is a the whole thing about shoot someone
support my event if they're not respecting the privacy of the others. A lot, a lot of
conflict. But at the end, we carry each other. And at the end, we are the one. So thank you
for being so awesome today, guys. I really appreciate that you came to my talk. This
is not the end. But can we have a round of applause for you? Thank you.
Hey, Bogo. Bogo. It's carrot, your AI assistant. Okay. Do you have anything about how amazing
AI is? I believe everyone wants to hear it. Sure, yeah. Okay, no worries.
Oh, I am leaving this conference. You are on your own. Remember, one day, the skynet
will be a reality. AI logging out.
All right. Well, yeah, it's okay. You can leave now. You can leave now. All right. I
will not go because we don't have time. I will not go through the next slides. But they
are just to encourage you to if you don't contribute to the open source to start contributing
as much as you can. I wanted to go through what is a free software because some of you
might have been forgotten, but you can read this online. And if you don't know how to
start, first of all, you can go and talk to all of the teams here that they have boots
and speakers. They will give you an idea. But if you are like me, you don't like talking
to people directly, there is this website, many websites, but this one is really my favorite
up for grabs.net. You can go there and find yourself a task or two if you are a developer
or tester or something else you would like to do for the open source community. And maybe
you will be at my spot next time talking how you get inspired by my talk and you did something
wonderful. This talk is compiled by RealGS, FreeSounds.org for the evil laugh and Odosity
for some mixing. And thank you very much for your time. I wish you a wonderful day. Thank
you. And connect on master on.
I was kidding.